### Question 3: Current research review (20pts)
Pick a scientific paper using pubmed from the last 15 years.
In one of the following areas:
1. Comparative genomics
   - Sequence similarity ( DP)
   - Database Search (Blast)
   - HMM
2. Genome Assembly
   - De Novo Assembly
3. Gene Expression
   - Clustering/Classification
4. Comparative Genomics and Evolution
   - Phylogeny Trees
5. Gene Regulation and Epigenomics
   - Regulatory Motifs Discovery


Provide Name of Article:

`MEME SUITE: tools for motif discovery and searching`

Authors:

`Timothy L Bailey 1, Mikael Boden, Fabian A Buske, Martin Frith, Charles E Grant, Luca Clementi, Jingyuan Ren, Wilfred W Li, William S Noble`

Date published:

`2009 May 20`

Please write a brief introduction on the problem the paper tries to
solve and the still open questions of the paper. If possible state
which algorithm if any they base their work on, what is the
asymptotic run-time of their work?

The article "MEME SUITE: tools for motif discovery and searching" introduces several software tools that are useful for detecting and searching for motifs within biological sequences. The objective of the paper is to address the challenge of identifying repetitive patterns in DNA, RNA, and protein sequences that are indicative of particular biological functions or processes. Identifying such motifs helps researchers better understand the role and control of genes and proteins.

The article talks about the programs present in the MEME Suite, such as MEME, DREME, and FIMO, that apply distinct algorithms to detect and search for motifs. MEME utilizes an expectation-maximization algorithm, DREME uses a discriminative regular expression motif elicitation algorithm, and FIMO is utilized for searching a sequence database to locate instances of a specific motif.

The challenge is the development of more efficient algorithms for motif discovery, as the run-time of these algorithms can be computationally expensive, especially for larger datasets.

**Time Complexity**:

The article do not directly state the time complexity, below is the information fetch from google.
   
   - Expectation-maximization algorithm: **O(NMKt)** or **O(N M)**
   - DREME is likely to be faster than the Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm used in MEME, as DREME is a heuristic algorithm that does not involve iterative calculations. **O(NMk^2w)**
   - FIMO : **O(LMNKt)** roughly close to linear